.TH pmt\-ehd 8 "2008\-09\-16" "pam_mount" "pam_mount"
.SH Name
.PP
pmt\-ehd - create an encrypted disk image
.SH Syntax
.PP
\fBpmt-ehd\fP [\fB-DFx\fP]
[\fB-c\fP \fIfscipher\fP]
[\fB-h\fP \fIdigest\fP]
[\fB-i\fP \fIcipher\fP]
[\fB-k\fP \fIfscipher_keybits\fP]
[\fB-t\fP \fIfstype\fP]
\fB-f\fP \fIcontainer_path\fP \fB-p\fP \fIfskey_path\fP
\fB-s\fP \fIsize_in_mb\fP
.SH Options
.PP
Mandatory options that are absent are inquired interactively, and pmt-ehd will
exit if stdin is not a terminal.
.TP
\fB-D\fP
Turn on debugging strings.
.TP
\fB-F\fP
Force operation that would otherwise ask for interactive confirmation. Multiple
\fB-F\fP can be specified to apply more force.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcipher\fP
The cipher to be used for the filesystem. This can take any value that
cryptsetup(8) recognizes, usually in the form of "cipher-mode[-extras]".
Recommended are \fBaes-cbc-essiv:sha256\fP (this is the default) or
\fBblowfish-cbc-essiv:sha256\fP.
.TP
\fB-f\fP \fIpath\fP
Store the new disk image at \fIpath\fP. If the file already exists, pmt-ehd
will prompt before overwriting unless -F is given. If \fIpath\fP refers to a
symlink, pmt-ehd will act even more cautious.
.TP
\fB-h\fP \fIdigest\fP
Digest used for fskey derivation from the password. This can take any value
that OpenSSL recognizes. The default is \fBsha1\fP.
.TP
\fB-i\fP \fIcipher\fP
Cipher used for the filesystem key (not the encrypted filesystem itself). This
can take any value that OpenSSL recognizes, usually in the form of
"cipher-keysize-mode". Recommended is \fBaes-256-cbc\fP (this is the default).
.TP
\fB-k\fP \fIkeybits\fP
The keysize for the cipher specified with -c. Some ciphers support multiple
keysizes, AES for example is available with at least the keysizes 192 and 256.
Example: \fB-c aes-cbc-essiv:sha256 -k 192\fP.
.TP
\fB-p\fP \fIpath\fP
Store the filesystem key at \fIpath\fP. The filesystem key is the ultimate key
to open the encrypted filesystem, and the fs key itself is encrypted with your
password.
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIsize\fP
The initial size of the encrypted filesystem, in megabytes. This option is
ignored when the filesystem is created on a block device.
.TP
\fB-t\fP \fIfstype\fP
Filesystem to use for the encrypted filesystem. Defaults to xfs.
.TP
\fB-u\fP \fIuser\fP
Give the container and fskey files to \fIuser\fP (because the program is
usually runs as root, and the files would otherwise retain root ownership).
.TP
\fB-x\fP
Do not initialize the container with random bytes. This may impact secrecy.
.SS Description
.PP
\fBpmt-ehd\fP can be used to create a new encrypted container, and replaces the
previous mkehd script as well as any HOWTOs that explain how to do it manually.
Without any arguments, pmt-ehd will interactively ask for all missing
parameters. To create a container with a size of 256 MB, use:
.PP
pmt-ehd -f /home/user.key -p /home/user.enc -s 256
